Now you'll start to think like
a functional safety engineer and
consider how you can be more methodical about your analysis.
In functional safety, your goal is to identify high risk situations that could cause
harm and then you find ways to lower the risk to reasonable, acceptable levels.
Safety then is the absence of unreasonable risks.
Functional safety at its most basic level involves three main things.
Number one, identifying potential problems
that could injure people or damage people's health.
We will call these potential problems hazards.
Number two, evaluating the risks of these hazards.
Number three, using systems engineering to lower risks to acceptable levels.
You ensure that hazards do not lead to accidents.
Systems engineering helps you figure out what your vehicle needs to do and what
your vehicle design needs to look like in order to remain as safe as reasonably possible.
In practice the third part takes the most work
and will be the main focus of the functional safety module.
Lowering risks involves designing safe systems,
testing your systems and documenting all designs and tests.
In the first lesson we will give you an overview of these three basic building blocks.